replay: troubleshooting performance (#7109)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/javascript/common/session-replay/troubleshooting.mdx

## I see the message "A large number of mutations was detected (N). This can slow down the Replay SDK and impact your customers"

The Sentry SDK attempts to minimize potential [performance overhead in a few different ways](/product/session-replay/performance-overhead/#how-is-session-replay-optimized). One such way is by keeping track of how many DOM mutations are happening and disabling recording when an excessive amount of changes are detected. Many simultaneous mutations can slow down the web page, whether or not Session Replay is installed. However when an excessive amount of mutations happen the Replay client can incur an additional slow down as it records each change.

If you see the message "A large number of mutations was detected" it is indication your page could be optimized. For example, a drop down list with thousands of entries could be refactored into one with lazy loading. Fetching more data and updating the drop down list as the user scroll through it. The SDK has a <PlatformLink to="/session-replay/configuration/#mutation-limits">configuration that allows you configure the limits</PlatformLink> before recordings stops.

## The SDK is slowing down my website

> Sentry's latest SDK version include several performance degradation safeguards. Two of the major culprits for performance impact we've identified are due to websites having extremely large number of mutations happening (see above _large number of mutations_), and very large console messages. We've added improvements for these cases such as [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recording on pages that have excessively high number of mutations. It's important to update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from these improvements. In the event you encounter performance problems with Session Replay on the latest version of the SDK, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) describing the situation so we can further investigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've identified two major potential reasons for impacted performance and have added several performance degradation safeguards as a result, starting with version x.xx of the Sentry SDK. The two culprits are websites that have a large numbers of mutations (Read the entry above to learn more.) and large console messages. 

We've added improvements, including [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recordings on pages that have a large number of mutations. To see these updates in action, be sure you have the latest version of our SDK.

If you're having any problems with the latest SDK version, we want to hear about it. Please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) and describe your situation. 
```

> Sentry's latest SDK version include several performance degradation safeguards. Two of the major culprits for performance impact we've identified are due to websites having extremely large number of mutations happening (see above _large number of mutations_), and very large console messages. We've added improvements for these cases such as [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recording on pages that have excessively high number of mutations. It's important to update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from these improvements. In the event you encounter performance problems with Session Replay on the latest version of the SDK, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) describing the situation so we can further investigate.

Author: It'll never be out of date, because it's the 'latest'. I'm trying to indicate to folks to update to the latest SDK whatever it'll be. Otherwise we'll need to update the version on each SDK improvement and we're doing these weekly.

I could reword it to indicate that if it's not clear.

## I see the message: "A large number of mutations was detected (N). This can slow down the Replay SDK and impact your customers."

The Sentry SDK attempts to minimize potential [performance overhead](/product/session-replay/performance-overhead/#how-is-session-replay-optimized) in a few different ways. For example, by keeping track of how many DOM mutations are happening, then disabling recording when a large number of changes are detected. Many simultaneous mutations can slow down a web page whether Session Replay is installed or not, but when a large number of mutations happen, the Replay client can incur an additional slowdown because it records each change.

If you're seeing the "A large number of mutations was detected" message, it means that your page could be optimized. For example, a dropdown list with thousands of entries could be refactored into one with lazy-loading. This would fetch additional data and update the dropdown list as the user scrolls through it. The SDK has a <PlatformLink to="/session-replay/configuration/#mutation-limits">configuration</PlatformLink> that allows you to configure the limits before recording stops.

## The SDK is slowing down my website.

> We've identified two major potential reasons for impacted performance and have added several performance degradation safeguards as a result, starting with version x.xx of the Sentry SDK. The two culprits are websites that have a large numbers of mutations (Read the entry above to learn more.) and large console messages. 

Author: ```suggestion
We've identified two major potential reasons for impacted performance and have added several performance degradation safeguards as a result. Please update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from all these improvements. The two culprits are websites that have a large numbers of mutations (Read the entry above to learn more.) and large console messages. 
```

> ## I see the message: "A large number of mutations was detected (N). This can slow down the Replay SDK and impact your customers."
> 
> The Sentry SDK attempts to minimize potential [performance overhead](/product/session-replay/performance-overhead/#how-is-session-replay-optimized) in a few different ways. For example, by keeping track of how many DOM mutations are happening, then disabling recording when a large number of changes are detected. Many simultaneous mutations can slow down a web page whether Session Replay is installed or not, but when a large number of mutations happen, the Replay client can incur an additional slowdown because it records each change.
> 
> If you're seeing the "A large number of mutations was detected" message, it means that your page could be optimized. For example, a dropdown list with thousands of entries could be refactored into one with lazy-loading. This would fetch additional data and update the dropdown list as the user scrolls through it. The SDK has a <PlatformLink to="/session-replay/configuration/#mutation-limits">configuration</PlatformLink> that allows you to configure the limits before recording stops.
> 
> ## The SDK is slowing down my website.
> 
> We've identified two major potential reasons for impacted performance and have added several performance degradation safeguards as a result. Please update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from all these improvements. The two culprits are websites that have a large numbers of mutations (Read the entry above to learn more.) and large console messages.
> 
> We've added improvements, including [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recordings on pages that have a large number of mutations. To see these updates in action, be sure you have the latest version of our SDK.
> 
> If you're having any problems with the latest SDK version, we want to hear about it. Please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) and describe your situation.
> 

Reviewer 2: I agree that reminding people they should be on the latest version is very important. Lets put that up at the top.

Also, i re-ordered the two sections, I think the generic 'perf' one can go first, for people reading top-to-bottom, then the specific perf stuff afterwards. For people going a google search for specific terms or error messages it won't matter.

```suggestion
## The SDK is slowing down my website.

If you are experiencing slowdowns on your website first make sure you update to the latest SDK version. This will include the most recent bug fixes and performance improvements.

We've identified two major potential reasons for impacted performance and have added several performance degradation safeguards as a result. The two culprits are websites that have a large numbers of mutations (Read the entry below to learn more.) and large console messages.

To mitigate these problems SDK version 7.54.0 will [truncate console messages](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and will disabled Replay recordings on pages that have a large number of mutations.

If you're having any problems with the latest SDK version, we want to hear about it. Please open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) and describe your situation.

## I see the message: "A large number of mutations was detected (N). This can slow down the Replay SDK and impact your customers."

The Sentry SDK attempts to minimize potential [performance overhead](/product/session-replay/performance-overhead/#how-is-session-replay-optimized) in a few different ways. For example, by keeping track of how many DOM mutations are happening, then disabling recording when a large number of changes are detected. Many simultaneous mutations can slow down a web page whether Session Replay is installed or not, but when a large number of mutations happen, the Replay client can incur an additional slowdown because it records each change.

If you're seeing the "A large number of mutations was detected" message, it means that your page could be optimized. For example, a dropdown list with thousands of entries could be refactored into one with lazy-loading. This would fetch additional data and update the dropdown list as the user scrolls through it. The SDK has a <PlatformLink to="/session-replay/configuration/#mutation-limits">configuration</PlatformLink> that allows you to configure the limits before recording stops.
```

Reviewer: I made a few small tweaks here ^^

More details about this feature can be found in the <PlatformLink to="/session-replay/configuration/">configuration page</PlatformLink>.

> ## A large number of mutations was detected ( N ). This can slow down the Replay SDK and impact your customers.

Author: Makes sense, added

The Sentry SDK attempts to minimize potential [performance overhead in a few different ways](/product/session-replay/performance-overhead/#how-is-session-replay-optimized).
One such way is by keeping track of how many DOM mutations are happening. This is important because many mutations can slow down the web page. And for Replay to keep track of it,
it could inccur an additional slow down. This is an indication your page could be optimized. For example, a drop down list with thousands of entries could be refactored into one with lazy loading.
Fetching more data and updating the drop down list as the user scroll through it.
The SDK has a <PlatformLink to="/session-replay/configuration/#mutation-limits">configuration that allows you configure the limits</PlatformLink> before recordings stops.

## The SDK is slowing down my website

Sentry's SDK latest version includes several performance improvements. Two of the major culprits for performance impact we've identified

> were due to websites having extremely large number of mutations happening (see above _large number of mutations_), and very large console messages. We've added improvements for these

Author: ```suggestion
where due to websites having extremely large number of mutations happening (see above _large number of mutations_), and very large console messages. We've added improvements for these
```

cases such as [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recording on pages that have excessively high number of mutations.

> It's important to update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from these improvements. In the event you encounter performance problems with Session Replay,

Author: ```suggestion
It's important to update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from these improvements. In the event you encounter performance problems with Session Replay on the latest version of the SDK,
```

> ## The SDK is slowing down my website
> 
> Sentry's SDK latest version includes several performance improvements. Two of the major culprits for performance impact we've identified
> where due to websites having extremely large number of mutations happening (see above _large number of mutations_), and very large console messages. We've added improvements for these
> cases such as [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recording on pages that have excessively high number of mutations.
> It's important to update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from these improvements. In the event you encounter performance problems with Session Replay on the latest version of the SDK,
> please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) describing the situation so we can further investigate.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The SDK is slowing down my website

Sentry's ReplaySDK v??? and above includes several performance improvements. Two of the major culprits for performance impact we've identified are due to websites having extremely large number of mutations happening (see above _large number of mutations_), and very large console messages. We've added improvements for these cases such as [truncating the console](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/pull/7917) and disabling Replay recording on pages that have excessively high number of mutations. It's important to update the SDK to the latest version to benefit from these improvements. In the event you encounter performance problems with Session Replay on the latest version of the SDK, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) describing the situation so we can further investigate.

```

Author: I edited ur suggestion to remove the reference to the exact version (XXX) in favor of leaving it open again. I understand this isn't exact, but I'm purposely trying to just say "the latest" to hint nudge folks into updating and verifying whether it's slow still, that's because we continue to add more perf improvements constantly
